[WHOOSH]
[AUDIO LOGO]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[APPLAUSE]
>> Thank you very much.
And yeah, boots on the ground.
So this is a little
bit unusual for myself,
and I can just see the screen.
So we're going to be
talking about Wolfland.
But before we
start, I would like
to point out that I
never want to be labeled
as a cryptid researcher.
This is multiphenomena research.
Ultimately, everything within
the genre that we're looking at
is linked.
So how did it begin for me?
Writing the first
truth-proof book,
the local newspaper put a few
articles in for me saying,
author wants stories of
the strange and unusual.
And in amongst it I got
a story from this place,
Flixton, North Yorkshire.
And there's a picture of me
stood outside the village.
There's actually three villages,
Staxton, Flixton, and Faulkton.
If you put them
together, you've just
got one average-sized village.
So I looked into this story.
They're talking about
the Flixton werewolf.
Mildly interested,
did a bit of digging
and then found out
that it actually
has a history, shall
we say, of werewolfery.
59-year-old, I'm talking
about werewolves,
trying to portray to
you guys that there's
some reality to this.
And there really is.
But let's forget about the
full moon and silver bullets
because I don't think that's
got any connections to it.
However, the more
I looked into it,
the more I realized that
there's some kind of--
it's there.
There's a phenomena here--
Carr Mans Spital Flixton.
Everybody can see that.
What is that?
937 AD, the then
king, Athelstan,
ordered that a refuge be built
at Flixton for the protection
of travelers from wolves.
Now, we know that wolves
would have been prevalent
throughout the United Kingdom
in 1937 AD, 1,084 years ago.
However, the writing
goes on to say,
"and an infestation of savage
beasts least they be devoured."
So is Paul trying to say
that they were werewolves?
I have no idea.
I really haven't, but it's
an interesting little bit
of writing when you
put it into context
of what's come out of Flixton
and what continues to come out
of East and North Yorkshire.
Remember that bears would
have long been extinct,
15,000 to 2,000 years before.
So what was the other
apex predator in the area?
So before we leave this
slide, "Wolfland," Athelstan
also said that a certain portion
of land within that vicinity
would forever be
known as Wolfland.
And as you can
see, I'm not going
to dwell on the negative
magnetic anomaly,
but of Bempton and Speeton.
We do have one about 18
nautical miles off the head.
Whether this has any
influence on the phenomena,
I don't really know.
But all I know is in that area--
and it's not for this talk--
aircraft have gone missing,
literally vanished off
radar, ZA610, XS894, ZE723.
Lots of aircraft
have gone around
that negative magnetic anomaly.
Trawlermen have talked about
missing time and advanced time.
But I need to stick
with Wolfland,
so I'm rambling, people.
So yeah, I do it.
So there we go.
Spital roundabout, so
that's very close to where
the ancient refuge was built.
The white cottage or farmhouse
in the picture is built on
the foundations of Carr Mans
Spital.
So one of the
first stories I got
was from this young lady
who was driving home
after visiting York for the
day with her husband and two
children.
They'd been for a meal
and gone to the cinema,
coming back quite late, not
a lot of traffic on road.
And she saw this.
[AUDIO PLAYBACK]
>> I was in disbelief
because it was so large,
and it had its back
end up in the air.
And its front end sort of
looked like it was down,
so like it was
looking at something
or maybe eating something.
[END PLAYBACK]
>> She saw this.
Her husband hadn't seen it.
As they pulled off the
roundabout to go to Cayton,
where they lived, she asked
her husband to stop the car,
lock the doors.
They did several circuits
of the roundabout.
Nothing to be seen.
But she's adamant
about what she saw,
and that's just one of many.
I haven't just got one
account from Flixton,
and they go back decades
and decades, people, farmers
working the area.
So there's a slide in
relation to Carr Man's Spital
where the farmhouse stands now,
approximately 48 meters away.
We've also got a stream
running close to it
because watercourses seem to
feature in a lot of the-- well,
not just say cryptid sightings,
but unexplained phenomena
reports.
Close to Flixton and Staxton
we've got the river Derwent.
The river Derwent seems to run
through this history, this land
of werewolfery, should we say.
And we've also got
about 3/4 of a mile
away, at the top
of Staxton Wold,
we've got RAF Staxton
Wold where we've
got UFO reports, cat reports,
crpytid reports, all manner
of unexplained phenomena
presenting because these
are multiphenomena areas.
And that's what I
like to impress.
We might not know
why they're linked.
Well, I don't.
Somebody in the audience
might be able to tell me.
But it's presenting.
I think what we've
got is an enabler,
and I don't mean a
godhead, but there's
something within the
structure of the land
is enabling unexplained
phenomena to present
in these areas.
So we move forward, and now
we've just gone down below
Flixton, the refuge, onto the
Carrs, C-A-R-R-S, it should be.
It means reeds and
elder, wetlands.
And the archaeologists
back in the 1940s,
a guy called John Moore
discovered that this
was an ancient lakebed.
And he named it Lake Flixton.
And since that time,
now, it's probably
one of the most important
archaeological sites,
certainly, in the
United Kingdom.
But it's renowned
throughout the world.
But what I find interesting,
based on the artifacts found
at Starr Carr,
the archaeologists
have concluded,
some of them have,
that these ancient peoples,
Mesolithic peoples going back
8,000 to 11,000 years was shaman
practicing ritualistic magic
and sacrifice.
And I find that fascinating when
putting into context with what
we're talking about here,
the stories of the Flixton
werewolf.
And here's-- excuse me-- an
account from a farmer who works
the Carrs.
[AUDIO PLAYBACK]
>> You know that if you stand,
it's like flat like, isn't it?
>> Yeah, that's the
Carrs, flat, yeah.
>> Well, they're running across
them fields, all morning.
If I stood at the
end of that field,
it would be about another
foot, 2 foot taller than me.
And I'm 6 foot, 6 foot 1.
>> Tall, 6 foot 1.
>> About that.
>> Yeah.
>> And it went fast.
So it went running,
flee line with a twisty,
where you come down the hill.
It got from there across and up
the edge of the left-hand wood.
[END PLAYBACK]
>> Up the edge of the
left-hand wood-- well,
there's burial mounds in the
left-hand wood because, once
again, we've got ancient
earthworks and the connection
to these ancient phenomena
because that's what they are.
But I tend to think that,
although the early people were
more in touch with the
land than we are today,
I think they probably
place their earthworks
and places of reverence
in these locations
because they knew the
significance of the land.
So we move on.
Danes Dyke, this is about
6 miles away from Flixton
and about 3 miles
away from my home.
There I am stood outside
the entrance of Danes Dyke.
But before we go to
the cryptid, Danes Dyke
also has stories
of a white lady,
the ghost of a white lady.
And you can look in
books of folklore
that go back hundreds
of years where
people claim to have seen this
apparition, this white spirit
form.
I spoke to three people
within living memory,
obviously, since
I've spoken to them.
But they've not
seen a white lady.
When they tell me
that they've seen her,
it's a sphere of light.
They've seen light
form phenomena
drifting through the
lake, through the Dyke.
So once again we've got
human interpretation.
We're fitting it
to our narrative
of that's what I believe.
But nevertheless, the
phenomena is there.
And we've got big cat,
as in black cat phenomena
in the lake--
why am I saying lake--
in the Dyke.
So Danes Dyke is an ancient
earthwork, 2 and 1/2 miles,
cutting Flamborough head
off from the mainland.
Originally, people
thought that the Danes
built it or constructed it.
But it was excavated in
the 1800s by a guy called
Pitt Rivers who found
quantities of flint tools,
so that predates the Vikings.
So once again, whilst
writing the first book,
I got an account here,
April the 16th, 2014.
And where I am stood,
behind me, there's
a driving home from a night
shift from the nearby village
of Bessingby.
And he's coming down
the road about 3:00 AM,
picks up eye shine where
that arrows depict.
And he thinks there's
a deer or a badger.
But as he slows down,
and his words, there's
something on the side
of the road on all fours
that resembles the "American
Werewolf in London."
These people have
got nothing to gain
that have come forward
and spoken to us
whilst the making "Wolflands."
They're totally
unconnected to one another.
They've got different
levels of education.
There's something there.
So the next account,
October the 15th,
but before that, on
November the 15th, 2021, I
took my little dog for a
walk in the part of the Dyke
where I'm stood behind me.
Whilst I'm there,
there's a guy walking,
doing the same thing as us,
is stopped for a coffee.
And I strike up a
conversation with him,
and I ask him if he's seen
anything unusual in the Dyke.
I cite the big cat.
I usually do that if I'm trying
to strike up a conversation.
I think we all do it.
We all want to know if anybody's
had some kind of experience
because that's the nature of
what we're about, everybody
here I would think.
And he said he hadn't
seen a big cat.
And he asked me the date.
And I opened my phone,
November the 15th.
He said, it will have been
a month ago today taken us
to October the 15th.
Came for a walk.
He said, he explained that he
uses public transport, a bus.
And he was walking
back to the bus stop,
which you can see just
below where it says October
the 15th at about 10 to 5:00.
So the bus came about 10 past.
And this is what he
claims because he
allowed me to record him.
[AUDIO PLAYBACK]
>> Yeah, what it was
is I left the ward.
What I mean, it should have
part the Dyke, Danes Dyke.
And as I'm taking
my Wellies off,
this big thing, it
was gray in color.
And it just stopped
and stared at me.
It was just turning dark, and
I looked at the dog, its face.
I kid you not.
It looked half human, half dog.
But the head of the bloody
thing looked bloody huge.
And when it looked
at me, the eyes
were bloody sparkling
on the thing.
[END PLAYBACK]
>> The eyes were sparkling,
as if he's not seen something
unusual stood at the bus stop.
Quite an unexpected
conversation.
I've spoken to him
since, but the sparkling
eyes I find fascinating because,
if we go back through folklore,
the Eastern North
Yorkshire coast
and into the forests
of North Yorkshire
where we'll visit
shortly, we've got
the phantom hounds with the
huge glowing eyes, the amber
eyes and the flaming red eyes
that roam through folklore.
So really, I'm walking in
other people's footsteps here.
I'm not treading new ground.
We're probably dressing it
up with different words,
but people have
done this before.
I think we should really look
at the stories of folklore
and give them a little bit more
credence than what they get.
So we'll move on.
So we've got the strange
coastline of East
and North Yorkshire, a mile
and a half to two miles
from Danes Dyke.
February the 7th, 2019.
Bempton Cliffs, my
primary area of research.
And I know people have said, oh,
it's the Skinwalker of the UK.
I don't think it
needs that title.
It can stand on
its own two feet.
Everything presents here.
It won't present to order.
You can probably
go for six months.
You might go for a
year and see nothing.
But there's a higher
probability to experience
unexplained phenomena here
than I believe anywhere
else in the UK, certainly.
February the 7th,
two ex-military guys
visited Bempton, keen birds
enthusiasts, particularly
birds of prey.
And this is a bird sanctuary.
And they wanted to see
the peregrine falcons that
were flying wild up there in
full flight early morning.
When they arrived very late,
a bit of frost on the ground,
they've got two dogs with them.
And they decided to go for
a walk, late night walk.
I've spoke to them, and he
said since, one of them,
he said, the feeling in the
air that night, he says,
I've done Bogside
in Northern Ireland.
I've done Iraq and
experienced conflict.
He says, but nothing
felt quite like that.
And what we saw, it were
off the scale of fear
that I've ever experienced.
And this is what he had to say.
[AUDIO PLAYBACK]
>> The atmosphere
was bloody weird.
It was electric.
I can't really
put it into words.
Yeah, this was about 2:00ish,
so we're shining the lamp.
And we lit up a pair
of fucking yellow eyes.
We carried on walking.
And we walked through
for another five minutes.
We got through this gate post
and walked a couple of meters.
We lit her up again 20
feet in front of us.
I didn't have a point of
reference for what it could be.
And I was hunkered down.
And at first it was on his back.
And then the [BLEEP] thing
stood up on two legs, mate.
The only thing I could
think of what it looked like
was a [BLEEP] werewolf.
[END PLAYBACK]
>> Can you imagine that?
Absolute terror.
Yeah, I know.
This guy along with
other people claimed
to have seen this
along the clifftops.
Now, it's barren.
We've got 80 to 420-foot cliffs,
with the sea hitting the bottom
of them most of the time.
Occasionally, on a low tide you
will have a bit of rocky beach.
But nobody can
walk around there.
You've got farmland to the
right, the left, and inside.
So basically, there's
nowhere to hide such a thing
as what these guys are
claiming they've seen.
But we've just got to
define what the real is.
That's what we've got to do.
It's real, but we've got
to define what the real is.
And something, like
I've said before,
within the structure
of the land--
this is close to the
magnetic anomaly--
is enabling many forms
of unexplained phenomena
to present and present in close
proximity and by time as well.
So the next slide.
This lady is-- there you go.
It's less than a year later,
January the 31st, 2020.
And Jamie came
with a friend, Lee,
and they stayed at Flamborough.
They stayed near the
lighthouse in a cottage.
And they arrived quite late.
And she decided to--
or they decided to go for a late
night walk to where she stood--
now, that's North Landing--
and said, there were a bit
of moonlight, no full moon,
bit of cloud.
But they could see the
contours of the cliffs
and the white chalk cliffs.
And if the photograph extended
behind her, there's a ravine.
It's got earth
steps cut into it.
It's about 60 foot deep.
And they walked down
into the ravine.
There's a wooden
bridge at the bottom
of the cliffs, fresh
water stream running out
into the sea.
They can hear the
sound of the sea.
They also heard a flock
of geese flying overhead.
And then, we talk about--
people call it the Oz Factor.
I prefer to call it
the lower silence.
But there's a raised awareness
before the lower silence.
She said, they became aware that
there was something changing.
And then everything
descended into this vacuum
of this disjointed reality.
And she tapped her friend,
Lee, and said, come on,
we need to go.
They became frightened
and said, we need to go.
We can do this in the daylight.
And that's what they did.
But they paused at
the top of the cliff
and looked out onto
the rocks momentarily.
And something sat there
that weren't there before.
Lee explained that
it was six foot tall.
He said, this thing,
whatever it was,
looked six foot in
the seated position.
And they described this
as having long arms.
So there you go.
[AUDIO PLAYBACK]
>> Kind of just
looking out to sea,
and then I started to notice
something on the cliff.
It looked like a big dog.
He brought an IR
camera, infrared camera
and another camera with him.
And what he tried
to do, he tried
to pick it up on the camera.
So we can see it
with our naked eyes,
but he couldn't pick
it up with the camera.
You got a weird feeling.
I can describe it as fear.
I don't really know
because you're looking
at something that's huge.
[END PLAYBACK]
>> Interesting.
There's a few things in there.
The all accounts fascinating.
Obviously, there's a lot more
detail to that in "Wolflands."
And most of these
people are on camera.
They're not got
their back to camera
or blurred out or anything.
So they can see it
with the naked eye,
but they can't see it
with an infrared camera.
That's taking it away from
any normal type of animal.
They heard a growl.
It lowered to-- not
lowered to the ground,
but lowered and slinked away.
And they made a hasty retreat.
Myself and Bob Brown
who sat in the audience,
we met them the
very next morning
and got the story,
as well as close
to the source from the
actual location as we could.
So we move on.
We're literally,
February the 7th,
2019 was the military
guys' connection.
Just about a year later,
just over a year later,
and we're 500 yards away
from where the guys are there
sighting.
And on this night,
myself, Bob Brown,
and one of my daughters,
Gemma, came to the clifftops.
Gemma has no interest in
unexplained phenomena at all.
She was staying with
us for a few weeks.
The alternative was to
watch TV soaps with her mom
or come with us,
and she chose that.
She chose to come with us.
So while they're there,
I'm setting a camera up
on the clifftops hoping to catch
these spheres of orange light
that I've been banging
on about for years.
And I can hear Gemma
and Bob talking.
And she's picked
her big torch up,
and she's highlighted a white
square on about 60 yards away.
At first, Bob said it might
be a board on a fence post.
But we go up to those cliffs in
the winter four or five times
a week at night, and he
soon realized it wasn't.
So here's Bob.
[AUDIO PLAYBACK]
>> Tell us what you saw on that
hillside, Bob, in the night.
>> Well, Gemma saw--
she put her torch
on, and she said,
there's a white light over
there, a square white light.
And I said, well, there's
no post out there, Gemma.
So I shone my light, and I saw
the bright light, square light.
And it dropped to the
ground and disappeared.
[END PLAYBACK]
>> They became a bit animated.
That's when-- because it was
just background noise to me.
I weren't really
taking a lot of notice.
And that were
probably-- well, it
was the highlight
of anything that
happened because,
like I've said,
we'd go up there four or five
times a week in the winter time
when there's no tourists about.
And as everybody else
in this audience knows,
true unexplained phenomena
does not present to order.
It's always when you're
least expecting it.
And at times, it's when
I've took strangers up
that it's happened.
Chris Turner, who you probably
all know, and Jerry Denning,
they've been up.
And they've seen the
light form phenomena.
First time, first hit.
We'd been going up for
months and seen nothing.
But they got to see it.
And we'll just move
to this next one.
So later that night,
when we got home,
probably had a tea or a
coffee, and I went to bed,
Gemma stayed up to watch TV.
So I'll just give a
breakdown of the room.
There's an alcove with a --
excuse me-- a large TV on the
wall in front and a solid brick
wall behind.
Behind that is a hall
with another brick wall.
Above is a soundproofed ceiling.
Why am I saying all this?
It will make sense in a moment--
and a flat above, unoccupied.
I know that because
they're our flats.
There was no nobody
living in it at the time.
She said, I'm watching TV.
Bear in mind, this is about a
year after the military guys
have seen this werewolf.
And I become aware of a noise.
And at first I thought
it was thunder,
and I muted the TV, and this--
[AUDIO PLAYBACK]
>> Gemma, can you tell me what
happened later that night after
you and Bob had seen that square
of white light on the hillside?
>> I stayed up late watching
a film, and all of a sudden,
I heard a noise.
At first, I thought
it was thunder,
so I turned the TV down.
And then I realized
it was a growling
sound that was right behind me.
It was that loud.
I could feel my
insides vibrating.
It was as loud as thunder.
The only way I can describe
it, it was something demonic.
[END PLAYBACK]
>> That's the way she felt. Now,
I've also written a book about
my own experiences from
childhood to about 2020 when we
finished the book.
And my wife and our four
girls, the only person
to have nothing to say
in that book is Gemma.
Nothing seemed to affect her.
She'd not been touched by
the phenomena, should we say.
So it was unusual for her
to come out with this.
Now, where am I going with it?
I will note the
play "Skinwalker."
And you often get researchers
and interested parties
who visit that location who,
at times, go back home and say
that strange things
are happening.
And it's almost as though the
phenomena has arrived with them
or interacting with them.
I believe they call it
the hitchhiker effect.
I'd think that it's an
intermind connection because I
think it's as easy as that.
I think that we can
concentrate on these things,
and we can evoke.
And I believe that that's what
happened there with Gemma.
I could be wrong, but
interesting nonetheless,
for me anyway.
That gives you an idea of the
scale of Bempton and Speeton
Cliffs.
But before we do that, we've
got the rock anglers encounter,
November 1998.
Now, in 2018, once again, myself
and Bob went to the clifftops
during the night.
I set my cameras up as I do.
We always put a heavy
towel over them.
You can't have
them running 24/7.
There's so much moisture
in the air in winter.
And I don't have the
funds to replace cameras
of a few thousand pounds.
So that's what I did.
And in the distance,
3/4 of a mile
away, there's a rock angler.
I can see his head light,
and he's fishing off
the edge of these cliffs.
They literally do that,
and they catch fish.
Crazy-- in the night, no fence.
So yeah, I know.
So right, I said to Bob--
because we started on--
they were on the move.
The tide must be going out, or
fishing's become unfavorable,
and he's packed in.
I said, when he gets a
little bit closer to us, Bob,
I'm going to put a light on.
I don't want to startle him.
It's two people just
sat in the darkness.
It's a bit odd anyway, isn't
it, when you think about it.
[LAUGHTER]
So yeah, so I did just that.
I put the light on.
He drew up alongside of us.
He didn't know me, but he knew--
I didn't know him,
should I say, but he
knew who I was because a lot
of the anglers, trawlermen,
lifeboat men have
given me reports
of the strange and unusual,
particularly the orange spheres
of light that I'm
always talking about
because they're not aircraft.
They're not some kind
of military exercise.
These things have been
documented for decades.
They're in the lifeboat logs
from the earliest of times,
8 to 9 hour call-outs looking
for these spheres of light
that they believe are
flares, aircraft in distress,
boat gone down.
Nothing to be seen.
False alarm with good intent.
These are the light forms,
the ILFs, in my opinion.
So he said he'd not seen them.
He'd fished the
clifftops 49 to 50 years.
And then he turned
around, he says,
but I have seen a spaceship
land on that hill there,
which is crazy.
And I already had
heard the story
from a rock angler who
was-- a rock angler's son
who was with him that
night in November 1998
because it was a
match, fishing match.
And they all left the clifftops.
Some of them even
left the fishing
tackle all in close proximity.
First, he thought it
were a combine harvester.
Human interpretation,
we're trying
to fit this thing we can see.
And then he realized
he could see
sky between the
land and the object.
So this is what he had to say.
[AUDIO PLAYBACK]
>> Can you tell us
what you saw in 1998?
>> I was walking along here, and
I saw over the top of the hill,
there was a bright light
with load of lights flashing.
It was end of November time,
actually, but I thought,
it can't be a combine
harvester at this time of year
because there's no noise
with it or anything, not
20 or 30 feet off the ground.
It landed in the field.
And all we could see
was the lights of it.
It were strange.
>> But it definitely
wasn't a helicopter.
>> No, no, no noise whatsoever.
>> Did you say there was sparks
and things coming off it?
>> Yeah, there was.
Yeah, it was strange.
[END PLAYBACK]
>> If we'd have carried on, he'd
of said a circle of flame lit
up around it when
it touched down.
They gathered everything they
could, all in close proximity
and left.
So that's the story in 1998.
I wish I could talk more about
1998, but I'm mindful of time
because everything--
they were very active in 1998.
So before we leave this slide,
the ghost of big railings--
for decades now,
people have talked
about the ghost of a fisherman
that walks the clifftops up
around Bempton and Speeton.
But when you actually
speak to the people who
claim to have seen the
ghost of big railings,
he's light form phenomena.
They've seen a sphere
of white light.
And they see this
light, and they
assume it's a headlight of a
man or he's carrying a light.
But they're not actually
seeing this form of a person.
So we'll move on.
The disconnected connections
and the guy in the picture
is Lee Hayward, really
switched on, articulate guy.
Very skeptical
but in a good way.
There's no sarcasm with Lee.
And back in 2019--
November the 14th is
when we went up there.
But back in 2019, he spoke to
me because we're good friends.
And he said he'd like to see
these lights for himself.
Come up, he says,
because he thinks
he can find an earthly
explanation for them.
And say I like Lee.
Loads of time for
him, and why not?
Come up two or three
times a week in winter.
The very first night that we
went to up, the very first--
and this is like
what we're talking
about with Chris Turner,
as Chris seeing them
when he came up.
We're driving up Cliff
Lane, a single track
road that leads to the
nature reserve, nothing
either side but open fields,
no streetlights, no properties.
It's devoid of everything.
He said, come on then, Paul.
What do these lights look like?
And I looked out of the window.
There's an orange sphere
about the size of a pea
at arm's length in the sky.
I said, like that.
I didn't expect to see it, but
Lee admitted afterwards, he
said, I didn't really know what
I was looking at even then.
Over the course of that
night, three to four hours
that we stayed up
there, the light forms
presented over the sea
three or four times.
One would switch on, become
two, become three, switch off,
appear in a different
part of the sky.
Not fly away, appear in a
different part of the sky.
Instantly, you just
look, and it's there.
This happened three
or four times.
Lee stood behind me.
I've got the camera set up.
I can't catch him on camera.
I did the night that
Chris Turner came up,
and Chris and Jerry
had cameras with them.
They couldn't catch them.
But they saw them.
So no sound, totally silent,
not flying from anywhere,
just appearing.
I turned around to look at
Lee, and that was in the field.
Obviously, that's
a representation
of what Les Drake, who was
making "Wolflands" with me,
as made for this talk.
About 80 yards away, I couldn't
believe what I were looking at.
It was huge.
It wasn't touching the ground.
It was just off the ground.
It was very, very bright.
And it wasn't illuminating
the area around it
for the brightness
of what it should be.
And this is what Lee had to say.
[AUDIO PLAYBACK]
>> The surrounding of the light
itself was about the size,
I would say, now looking
at it and thinking back,
then about the size of
a Volkswagen Beetle.
That was the influence
that the light had.
And you couldn't see
anything in the light
except for undulating
light patterns,
almost as if you
were staring at lava.
>> Yeah.
>> So there was
definitely, again,
some kind of definite
feeling inside me that this
wasn't man-made.
But it was something that
was beyond my explaining.
I can't explain.
[END PLAYBACK]
>> I love the fact that
he can't explain, people.
I really do.
So that was November
the 14th, 2019.
So the next picture
you're looking at
is Speeton Cliffs, 420 feet.
Just a bit lower down, you go
to the next village of Ryton.
They started about 30 degrees
and slowly become vertical.
This will make
sense in a moment.
After lockdown eased
its rules, we still
couldn't go to the
nature reserve.
So I rang a farm--
because there would
have been more people than
just twos taking exercise.
So I rang a farmer who
I know and asked him
if I could park on his land.
And myself and Bob
walked across the field,
took a golf trolley, a couple
of chairs, flasks, and cameras.
And we set up on the
edge of the cliffs,
set the camera up, put
the heavy towel over it.
It was fabulous, just
freedom, to be honest.
It were really good.
We'd been there about 20
minutes, and a man walked down,
a great tall chap about six
foot six with a gun dog.
He'd got a pointer dog with him.
I says, if we were
having a nice evening.
Are we enjoying
looking at the seabirds
because we know it's
a seabird colony.
November, there weren't
many there any route.
But this is 2020, sorry.
So anyway, he walks down
towards Flamborough.
About 45 minutes passed,
and he's coming back.
We've already told him
that-- we didn't tell him
we weren't looking
at the sea birds,
but we didn't tell
him anything else.
It's dark.
So he's curious.
There's a camera set
up even though it's
got the towel over it.
He says, what
you're doing, lads,
he said, because
obviously you're
not looking at the seabirds.
So I told him, I am
after documenting
these spheres of light.
And he explained, he
says, I live at Ryton,
the next village down.
And I've got windows
that overlook the sea.
And all the time that I've lived
there, I've never seen a thing.
But he weren't sarcastic.
He was just stating a fact.
Not everybody does.
And I thought that
were end of it.
And as he's walking
away, Bob says to him,
what about unusual animals?
Have you ever seen
anything unusual,
citing the big cat that's been
seen up there for many years.
And he asked him if he'd
seen this black cat.
Well, he just stopped and
told his dog to sit down.
He said, I can't believe
I'm going to tell you this,
he said, but I've got two
guys here talking to me,
asking about UFOs
and strange animals.
He says, I have seen
something unusual.
He says, it was
November of last year.
So we know where
we're going with this.
And he said, I parked the car
up near Ryton Holiday Camp,
walked onto the beach,
down towards Speeton.
And just before-- you can
see that black shape there,
there's a ravine
called Black Cliff.
A lot of strange stuff
happened there as well.
He said, this dog--
it's hard to explain.
And he says, my dog's
really clever, he says.
And I can kind of
read him, he says.
And if he's in a certain stance,
I know by his body language
he's seen a rabbit.
Something else-- he might
have seen a pheasant.
He said, but I
can't work him out.
I don't know what he's
looking at, he said.
And he's looking up
halfway up this hill.
So I got my
binoculars, had a look.
He said, and there's
an animal on all fours.
So I'm thinking it's a very
big goat or a small pony.
I don't know what
it is, he said.
But there's a lot of moonlight.
It's the full moon.
And with this, it
stood on two legs.
He said, I'm looking--
I can't believe
what I'm looking at.
He says, have you ever seen
the werewolf from Harry Potter?
So me and Bob just
looked at each other
and grinned because this
explanation, obviously,
in recent years,
after the film, has
been given to us about
what's been seen at Flixton.
So we said we knew
what he meant.
He said, well, I didn't
see no glowing eyes.
I didn't see no gnashing teeth.
I could just see
its form because it
was the full moon of November.
Said he turned and ran on
two legs over the cliff tops.
He says, I've never told nobody.
What I find interesting,
just like the paratroopers
in Gemma's experience
the year before,
the full moon in November
2019 was November the 12th,
two days before
myself and Lee Heywood
saw this huge sphere of light
less than two miles away.
Now, please don't
think that I'm trying
to say that the cryptids are
traveling around in spheres
of light because I'm not.
That's entirely the
opposite of what I'm saying.
I'm just saying that
there's something
enabling the phenomena to
present, as I've said before.
Yes, I am.
It's finding out what that is,
I think, the key that we all
need to be looking for.
The next slide.
The guy in the picture,
a former police officer,
a good friend of
mine Dave Barnes.
On this night in
2018, myself and Dave
were walking the
clifftops early evening.
I've got a Sony, an X80
camcorder in my hand.
It weren't switched on.
And Dave suddenly-- six
miles away suddenly said,
something's just come
out of the water.
I caught it midpoint.
It was about 100 foot, 150
foot in the air, we believe.
Difficult to see
when you're looking
at something six miles away.
But interesting nonetheless.
So we'll just let Dave
fill us in on this.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>> It was August the 30th, 2019.
It was half past 8:00.
It was just getting
dark, and I was
looking towards Filey Brigg.
And I actually saw this light,
this bright white light.
It did come out of the sea.
It come straight
up into the air.
It did a 90-degree turn to the
right and headed towards us.
It carried on in a
level trajectory,
and then it went down into
the sea quite near to us.
We both took some footage of it.
We estimate this about
six miles away from where
we're standing to Filey Brigg.
And the estimated speed,
that would be something
like 360 mile an hour.
It was definitely
flying against the wind.
[WIND BLOWING]
>> I got the camcorder on.
I managed to catch it.
>> Well, we'll know in a bit.
>> And it's windy, just
blowing off the land.
Put it in daylight.
Let's have a look.
I've got it on night shot and
couldn't see it on night shot.
It's dropping.
It's going to go into water.
>> It is.
>> Unbelievable.
>> What the hell is that?
[WIND BLOWING]
What the hell is that?
>> I don't know.
It's coming our way.
>> I can't see it.
>> I can.
If you look in--
look on here, Dave.
>> It's--
>> It's gone into
the sea, hadn't it?
We can't account for it.
UFO, not necessarily
alien, but unidentified.
[END PLAYBACK]
And I think Dave sums
that up perfectly.
We don't know what it was.
I think we can say
what it wasn't.
But what I find
interesting, it's
not a white light on a
black velvet background.
We've actually got
something tangible there.
There is something unusual
on the bit of film.
Now, we're going to move away
from East Yorkshire 30 miles up
the coast, North Yorkshire,
Scalby Mills, Gas Grey's
Experience because this
was more of an experience
than a sighting or anything and
the dislocation of the reality,
the lower silence.
On this night, in
2016, this man,
he liked to look at the stars.
He's not a UFO enthusiast.
But he really likes
to look at the stars.
He likes to look at
the northern lights.
And when the
weather's favorable,
when the conditions are
right, from Scalby Mills,
you can see the northern lights.
And he'd been up
there in the darkness,
I don't know, a number of hours.
And he suddenly became aware of
something strange, the raised
awareness.
And then things turned bad for
him, absolutely frightening.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>> Direction where the noise
is coming from originally.
And I can hear
something in that area,
but it's coming towards me.
Then I've become aware that
the atmosphere has changed.
So I can't hear
the waves anymore.
I can't really hear any
wind, insect noises.
Pretty much gone.
It's just still.
It's like someone's
pressed pause.
[END PLAYBACK]
>> Brilliant analogy.
I wish I had a thought of that.
So like somebody's
pressed pause.
And he said, 20
meters away you can
hear this large animal crashing
about in the undergrowth.
And then it started
coming towards him.
He said, have you
been to the races
and listened to the
racehorses as they
come thundering towards
you, that influence
that they have on the ground?
He said that's what
it was like, he said.
But it was one animal.
He said, it's coming towards me.
He says, I put my
hands on my head
and dropped into
the fetal position.
And there's no sound of
anything else now but this.
He said, and just as I thought
I was going to get whacked--
and that were his exact words--
everything just
snapped back to normal.
I can hear the waves.
Everything's normal,
he says, almost
like the phenomena
is playing with him.
That's the only way
I could look at it.
Behind me is a massive
bay called Jackson's Bay.
And I think it's
in the third book.
I'm not certain.
But I've written
about cryptid reports
from fishermen before
I met this guy, UFO
reports, the light form report.
So once again, we've got
this concentrated pocket
in this area.
Before we leave this, you can
see Scalby Mills on the map.
The map that I've used
for myself and Les
whilst making
"Wolflands," that's
the map that we transition
through the documentary with.
And you can see the red dot
to the left is Hackness,
and that's the entrance
to the Forge Valley
and the North Yorkshire
Moors National Park, which
is 525 miles of moor,
forest, woodland,
with farms and little
villages interspersed.
But it's a lot of area.
And that's where we're
going to go next.
But before we go to
it, just below it,
there's another village
called East Ayton.
120 years ago-- and I found this
in an archive in Bridlington
Library--
a writer or historian,
we would say,
called Harwood Brieley wrote
about the Barghest of East
Ayton, a huge phantom hound
with glowing eyes that
were said to
frequent the forests
and moor around where
we're going to go next.
So it's all there.
This has never gone away.
We're just treading in
other people's footsteps.
So Broxa Forest, or very
close to Broxa Forest.
This is in a ravine, a
700 to 800-foot ravine.
The guy on the left
is Chris Wright
who was making "Wolflands"
with myself and Les.
Chris has been
absolutely invaluable
because he knows the area of the
landscape as well as anybody.
The guy in the middle, witness
Steve, Jimmy on the right.
And there were three men in
2018 went into the forest.
Jim used to find places
where the three of them,
we'll call the third witness,
witness C. The three of them
could go and do some wild
camping, a bit of fishing.
The river Derwent was about 20
yards away from where they sat.
And it's just an
adventure for a weekend.
Hard working men that just go
and do something like that.
No interest in
unexplained phenomena.
None of our witnesses have.
It's come to them.
So on this night, they
arrive quite late.
It's not quite dark, and
they go into the ravine.
In places, because
it's so steep,
Les has had an
experience in the ravine
where it collapsed at the top.
He might tell you about
it if you ask him.
It's 700 to 800 feet.
In places, they're coming
down on the bottoms,
it's that steep.
And when they arrive
at the bottom,
they want to light a small fire.
They want to set up camp.
And witness C suddenly starts
saying, I don't like it.
We're being watched.
Something's watching us.
Totally out of character.
They're looking at each other.
They can't work it out.
We've got to go.
We need to go.
He said, well, it's
just about dark now.
And then it's getting dark.
He says, it were going
on like this for an hour.
And we're trying to comfort him.
We're trying to console
him because he's just
out of character.
And suddenly, a pair
of huge amber eyes
lit up in the darkness,
self-illuminating eyes,
is what they said, human shaped,
about three foot off the floor.
And he's getting
even more frightened,
absolutely terrified.
And in the end, Jim
said, I couldn't stand it
any more because we're
frightened he's going
to run off into the darkness.
And I stood up.
I took a few paces
towards these eyes,
and I made a few hissing
sounds and shooing sounds.
And just let him go.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>> We're going on for
at least an hour saying,
I don't like it.
I don't feel comfortable.
>> This was prior to--
>> Yeah.
Something's watching.
>> Also, so it's actually
before these eyes were on you.
>> Oh, yeah, yeah.
>> --sort of perceived
this feeling.
>> He would tell you
it was like just--
there's someone watching,
and I don't like it.
[END PLAYBACK]
>> So we've got an example
there of the phenomena--
we'll call it the phenomena
regardless of what it is--
putting its influence onto
an individual before he's
even seen it.
Jim stood up, made these sounds.
And we'll come back to
that slide in a moment.
Now we're going to
go to Brown head?
Farm Stape six miles away.
So we've got Scalby Mills.
We've got to Broxa, and
then we've got Stape.
Incidentally, a Broxa,
in some cultures,
is a shapeshifting demon.
And they're in a forest
called Broxa Forest, which
is fascinating in itself.
Brown Head Farm, that's the
ruins of Brown Head as it
is today.
But back in 2002,
it had a roof on.
It had windows in, and the
doors, one could be barricaded.
One could be bolted.
But it was derelict.
It had been derelict since
1952 until a young gamekeeper
came across it in the
forest when he stepped out
into a clearing.
Back in the day, it had pine
trees tall to the back of it
and at the sides and a
clearing of land in the front.
And things started to change and
get strange for the gamekeeper
in 2002.
One night, whilst walking
home with his cousin who'd
come to stay for a
few days, he said
he'd just about gone feral.
That were his words.
So there's a fire in the
farmhouse and a well for water.
And I'm living off the land.
But he's walking home.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>> It were pitch black.
It had been 10:00,
11:00 at night, maybe.
And we're coming
down this track here.
And at the time, all this
was-- it was all clear felled.
>> Right, OK.
>> And as we got to
middle of the clear fell,
this light shot up sort of--
>> From about this location.
>> Yeah, it was about the middle
of where the clear fell was.
>> Yeah?
>> And it just shot apart--
[END PLAYBACK]
>> The light shot up
baseball-sized sphere of light,
shot up from the ground,
and carried on going.
He thought it was
a trip wire flare.
He thought they'd caught it,
and he expected squaddies
to come out and surround them.
Not that they'd
done anything wrong,
but we're very close
to area Fylingdales.
So we've got the military
installation connection
as well where all the
things are happening.
They're very close as
well, within a few miles,
of Goathland.
Probably, people have watched
the program "Heartbeat"
and the program "Goath."
That's based in Goathland.
But what that wouldn't
tell you is they
have the Legend of the
Gytrash, huge phantom hound
that haunts the forests
and moors around that area.
So it's all there.
So it's seen the
sphere of light.
Nothing happened.
They check next day for scorch
marks in case it was a flare.
Nothing.
And then everything
became weird.
His cousin went home,
not because of that,
because he just was going home.
And he said,
wherever he went, he
felt like he were being watched.
Eyes are upon him.
If he's chopping logs
outside the farmhouse,
he said, it's like there's
something on my shoulder.
It's that intense.
Another gamekeeper with him
on this occasion and they
hear a baby crying
in the forest.
And don't forget,
these are gamekeepers.
They're used to a hedgehog being
attacked and making squealing
sounds and the sounds of foxes.
So this was an infant.
It sounded like a human infant.
And we went to the edge of where
it was crying, and it stopped.
And started further in.
I realized this is probably
Bigfoot type phenomena
that people are talking about.
But this guy I don't think
that's what we're interacting.
So we'll come back to him.
We'll go back to the
forest close to Broxa,
and we'll just finish this off.
So Jim has stood up, made the
hissing sounds and shooing
sounds, and the
eyes of disappeared.
Relief.
Turns back around and looks
at witness C and Steve,
and they've got looks of
absolute terror on their faces.
And when he looks,
the eyes, which
were three foot off the
ground, should I say,
are now in the air.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>> From the eyes being lowered
down to being seven foot
in the air, it was just like,
now I don't know what it is.
And now I'm afraid.
>> You saw it stand up in there.
>> The eyes rose perfectly
as if it were a machine.
>> Really?
>> Just don't all
get in a fight.
It just went like a machine.
It just-- just rose.
[END PLAYBACK]
>> Absolute terror.
All night it stood
watching them.
They described it as
being bigger than two men.
He said-- Steve in
the middle says,
if you'd have asked
me to draw a werewolf,
I would not have drawn that.
He says, it looked--
its proportions were just
ridiculous, absolutely--
and the self-illuminating eyes.
Said, we thought it was
growling, but it wasn't.
We realized after a
while it's breathing.
We can hear it's breathing.
Says only about 30
foot away from them.
Huge ears, ridiculously long
with tufts of fur on the top,
they said.
It turned to the
right occasionally.
They could see this elongated
muzzle that looked, once again,
ridiculous, like Wile E. Coyote.
Said, it was just ridiculous.
And this thing is there.
And there's also this
communication taking place
again because witness C
is absolutely terrified.
But he's saying to Jim,
it wants you to go, Jim.
It doesn't want you here.
And he's telling him.
Looked at Steve and
told him the same.
In the end, Steve
said-- because we were--
luckily, he said,
we were so pleased
that we had witness
C to try and restrain
because it would have
been even more terrifying.
That took their mind
off what they were--
the terror of what were there.
He said, but in the end,
I couldn't look at it.
He said, it were pouring
out so much anger and vile
towards them.
He said, I wanted it to end.
And he meant life ending.
I wanted it to end.
Morning came.
It left.
As they're leaving the forest,
they pack up everything's.
It's first light.
They're trying to get
out of the forest.
Witness C still saying,
it's still here.
It's still watching us.
They got to a certain
point in the forest,
he said, we're all right now.
It's gone.
So we've got, in my opinion,
some kind of communication.
This intermind connection
with the witness.
Maybe it's this guy's mindset.
I don't know.
Maybe it can't do
it with everybody.
Maybe it knows exactly
what we're thinking,
and maybe some people just are
wired up slightly different,
and they can--
it might have been
interested in him.
I don't know.
I think that first slide
is probably giving you
an indication of what happened.
So he's in the farmhouse.
He's had all these feelings
of being watched, the fear.
And he's lit a
fire in the hearth,
got in his sleeping bag.
Obviously, it's a lot
darker than that picture.
I just did that for the book.
He wakes up in the early hours.
He's not frightened, just aware,
just sort of, ugh, something
wrong here.
I don't know what it is.
And he's taking in this kind of
atmosphere, and this happened.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>> And I just remember looking
at it thinking it was looking
down.
It was huge.
So it had to duck
under the window lintel
in order to see me.
So it was like that.
So I'm laying on
the floor looking up
at it thinking what
am I going to do?
[END PLAYBACK]
>> What am I going to do?
Hey, I think we'd have all
had to wash our sleeping bags,
won't we?
That would have been absolutely
terrifying experience.
So this thing watched him.
Obviously, very dark, just the
glowing embers of the fire.
It watched him
five or 10 minutes,
went back into the forest.
He's already considering
his future here now,
and he is a great guy.
He's not a man that
frightens easily.
But I said to him, I said,
well, the door's locked.
He said, but-- the
front door was bolted.
The back door were
barricaded, but this thing
could have just
come through a wall.
He said, seriously,
he said, I've
never seen anything as big,
the shoulders, the arms,
didn't see glowing
eyes, didn't see teeth.
That's what I like
about these witnesses.
He's not elaborating.
For "Wolfland,"
myself and Les, we've
put it over just like the
witnesses have told us.
But we've tried to
portray them respectfully.
There's no tongue in cheek
jokes for these people.
We want to do a good job at
putting over their accounts
best way we can.
So 24 hours later,
he's decided already
that he's going to wait outside.
So back in the day,
we've got pine trees,
40 foot pines behind the
farmhouse, tall, at the sides
as well.
But that clearing
roughly where he stood,
there would have been
forest behind him.
He lights a fire in the
hearth, packs his sleeping bag
with clothes, sets a tarpaulin
down on the ground, and waits.
Anticipation, and this happened.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>> And as I'm down there
just watching the front
of the building, it came in from
the right to the left and just
moved along.
And it came in here, kind
of just above the gutter
level on the outbuilding.
But it came in slowly.
It came in in one motion.
[END PLAYBACK]
>> Which is fascinating.
And we know that it's well over
7 foot tall because it's come--
and we've been there and
measured and everything.
We've even measured for
the guys close to Broxa,
took a surveyor's tape
for the distance away.
But he didn't see leg movement.
That takes it away from
some kind of normal animal.
He said it just arrived.
His analogy was it was
like running a torch
beam down the wall.
So I can see these huge
shoulders, neck, and head.
And it arrives turned and
looks in the window, where
he's sleeping bag's packed out.
But he's outside.
He says, I believe it
knew exactly where I was.
He doesn't know why, but
that's what he believes.
He said, either that or there
was another one watching me.
He said, I just can't explain
it, but I felt it knew.
Before we leave
this slide, there's
a forest a few miles
away called Harwood Dale.
And they're only
separated by names.
They said, Harwood Dale Forest.
And I have an account
from three mountain bikers
that were going
down a logging road,
and about 30 foot
away in the bracken
where you've got fallen
trees, huge stones, all manner
of obstacles, there's a
creature not unlike he describes
pacing them.
But they said, it must have
been on a sliding track.
That's the only
thing they can say
because there was no movement,
no shoulder movement, nothing.
And he says, we
can see this thing.
He said, it just looked like--
there it was, but it looked
like a huge upright gorilla.
And it's just pacing them.
So we've got Steve in
Broxa Forest saying
it just rose like a machine.
He gave another
analogy saying its eyes
were like two ping pong balls in
glass tubes filling with water.
That's how smooth it was.
So they're over and
above any normal animal
that we could conceive.
I'm absolutely certain of this.
So just before we end this,
just look at the map once again.
And we've got close to where
the gamekeeper has encountered
Goathland.
And we've got the
stories of the Gytrash.
We've got Howl Moor.
We've got Wolf Howl.
There's lots of connotations
to the wolf up there,
and there's a strong
Norse influence.
And we've got Moor Rigg.
A rig is an outcrop of stone.
But Moor Rigg,
there's no signposts.
These are deep in forests.
You'd need a guide to
find you these places.
So there's nothing
that says Moor Rigg.
But that's very close to
where the guys close to Broxa
had their experience.
And I find it fascinating
M-A-W, the Maw,
because the Moor
is often associated
with Fenrir, the
Viking hound that was
said to eat Odin in Ragnarok."
So we've got the huge wolf
influence again even closer
to where they had
their encounter.
In between Moor Rigg and
Broxa is Wars Man's head.
Now, where are we
going with this?
Norse once again.
A warg is a wolf.
So if we replace the S with a
G, it becomes Wolf Man's Head.
That's my play on words, but
I just find it fascinating.
We've got Dalby Forest
slap bang in the middle.
And we've not touched on
Dalby throughout the talk,
and I didn't know
what my time would be,
if I could even speak about it.
So we'll just touch
on it briefly.
Back in the late 1990s
and the early 2,000s,
the now deceased UFO
investigator Tony Dodd,
who many in the
audience will remember.
He wrote "Alien Investigator,"
and I did some work with him
on a lightning that
crashed years ago.
But he was actively
investigating
animal mutilations in the
forest, human mutilations,
and strange creatures.
Never met the gamekeeper.
We were looking for witnesses.
So we know that these
people are out there.
It took that gamekeeper 20 years
to come forward and tell me
about it.
And so there'll be more people.
There's more people having
reports, having experiences.
There's a who lives in a cottage
in the middle of these forests.
I'm not going to say where,
but he's contacted me.
He's not seen anything.
But he says, on three
occasions, in the years
that he's lived there, I've
been woken up in the night.
And I go to my
back door, he says,
and if you told me there was a
pride of lions in the forest,
I would believe you.
I'm used to fallow deer, roe
deer, all manner of animals.
I know the sounds, he says.
But I don't know what this is.
He said, I've stood
listening to them, he says.
And there's branches breaking.
There's roaring.
This is absolutely deserted in
the middle of nowhere places.
There we've got Hackness, the
entrance to the Forge Valley.
In ancient times, it
was called Hacanos,
which means with the whiskers.
We've got East Ayton, and we've
talked about Harwood Brierley
120 years before talking
about the Barghest of East
Ayton, the huge phantom hound.
It's all there.
We've got Flixton,
which is "Wolfland,"
and the village next to Flixton,
Hunmanby, which quite literally
means Farmstead
of the Hound Man,
hund man, which is fascinating.
I think all the clues are there.
We've just got to look at.
And then we've got Speeton,
Bempton, and Flamborough,
my primary areas of research.
And we've done the full circle.
And thank you very much.
Hope you've enjoyed.
[APPLAUSE]
[MUSIC PLAYING]